So we are here for
a tour of web capabilities.
My name is Maximiliano.
I know it's a long name ,11 characters.
Typically I have problems with my
boarding passes, because it doesn't fit.
But anyway, Max is fine.
I can go by Max.
Really quickly,
I'm a mobile web developer.
So I have been doing websites and
web apps since 1996.
So a few years after that, I have
started doing JavaScript, of course.
Initially, it was just HTML,
pure HTML without server-side.
Of course, then,
I started doing backend, full stack,
and I've seen all
the different front end eras.
And I'm also a mobile developer.
So I've always been focusing
on the mobile space.
I always liked the mobile space when it
was really weird, like blackberries and
Nokia devices, Scindia and I'm not
sure if anyone remember that that one.
But anyway, during during those times,
I have created a lot of web apps using
a lot of API's that we will cover today.
Of course,
a lot of things have changed since then.
But we will still see some API's that has
been in a while for a couple of years.
So I'm an author, so
I have author 13 books.
You can see there my shelf with a lot of
translations, so there is a trick there.
That's why you see more books,
because there are translations on
languages that I don't understand.
And I have offered a lot
of courses as well,
online courses in the past 12, 13 years.
And here, at Front End Masters, you
will find a lot of courses from myself,.
And I'm Firt on Twitter.
Firt.Dev, my personal website where
you can see articles, my books,
and YouTube videos and sessions that
I've been doing over the past few years.
But we're not here to talk about me,
we're here to talk about capabilities.
And the last piece of, let's say,
text that I have authored,
it's not really a printed book,
it's an e-book on PWA.
Learn PWA that was published by
the Google Chrome team and web.dev, and
there is a full chapter on capabilities.
So later today, we'll get into there,
because we have a lot of links,
nice links that I have created.
By the way, that open source and
it's a creative common, so
it's free license to use.
And if you are interested in
PWAs here at Front End Masters,
I also offer a course on that,
Build PWA from a Scratch.
But also you have text-based information
with examples here and web.dev.
So today,
we're going to cover capabilities.
We're going to define what
the capability is in a minute.
But let's say, for now that this
workshop is going to be a tour.
And as a tour, we are not going to
code everything from a scratch.
The idea of this workshop is for you to
understand all the capabilities of the web
these days, to understand what you can do,
how, and to test those capabilities.
Sometimes, we will code that,
sometimes it goes right there, and
we will try to understand.
So we will talk about permissions and
security.
We're going to start with that.
So how permissions and security work,
compatibility that is typically an issue
when we're talking about web capabilities.
Then we'll get into sensors,
location, geolocation.
And input devices, speech,
voice, and camera,
hardware and, let's say, external devices.
So how can we get out of the screen,
get out of the current user device and
do something outside?
How to integrate with
the operating system.
So we're going to see
different new APIs and
abilities that we have to act like
a native app in several ways.
And on that sort of things,
we will get into PWA capabilities as well.
So I have a couple of gadgets
here that we will use later.
On top of one app that I will
give the URL in a minute so
you will be able to test that
app It's just an example on how
you can integrate several
capabilities in one real app,
not just to see each
capability one by one.
Prerequisites, that's the URL
firtman.github.io/capabilities.
There you will find just
a repository with some links.
And there is a folder
where you have the slides,
a copy of the slides in PDF in
case you wanna follow along.
And also you have a folder with source
code that is plain vanilla JavaScript.
So you don't need any framework,
npm, install, or anything.
But it's called CookingMaster.
So we will get into that
project later today.
Nothing really fancy, but
it's not about how it looks like,
it's about what we have here.
So we have a lot of links that we
will see over the rest of the day.
And if you go to the repo,
github.com/firtman capabilities,
you have that CookingMaster
folder that we will use later,
not now, okay, but later if you want.
It's just plain Vanilla JavaScript
using a lot of capabilities.